SEP-8: use CAP-18 instead of making issuers co-signer (#781)
stellar/stellar-protocol: ecosystem/sep-0008.md

```
SEP: 0008
Title: Regulated Assets
Author: Interstellar.com, Howard Chen <@howardtw>
Status: Active
Created: 2018-08-22
Updated: 2020-12-10
Version 2.0.0
```

## Simple Summary

Regulated Assets are assets that require an issuer’s approval (or a delegated third party’s approval, such as a licensed securities exchange) on a per-transaction basis. It standardizes the identification of such assets as well as defines the protocol for performing compliance checks and requesting issuer approval.

## Target Audience

> Asset issuers, issuance platforms, wallet developers, and exchanges.

Author: Not at all. Opened a new [PR](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/813/) for reformatting.

## Motivation

Stellar is an ideal platform for issuing securities. Regulation sometimes requires asset issuers to monitor and approve each transaction involving issued assets and to enforce constraints. This is possible on the Stellar network today, however there exists no standard interface between wallets and issuers to negotiate approval.

## Overview

> Implementing a regulated asset consists of these parts:

Author: I've adopted this format in https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/813

> - [Identification]: Regulated asset issuers set the [authorization flags] in the asset issuing account. Regulated asset issuers advertise the existence of an approval server and the approval criteria via their [SEP-1 stellar.toml] file.

Author: I've removed the title `identification` in https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/813

> - [Transaction Composition]: Transactions consist of operations that authorize the holding account, transact the regulated asset, and deauthorize the holding account.

Reviewer: ❗ `holding account` appears to be a new term in this SEP that isn't well defined. Could we use the term client's account here to indicate whose account it is, or transacting account to describe which account it is?

Author: I've removed this term in https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/817/

> - [Approval Server]: Endpoints defined in this SEP that a client uses to obtain a signature for a transaction that temporarily authorizes the client to operate with the asset.

Author: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/813/files#diff-dfd6de7cb4877cfd8a07c699a07a96d254ba8fa32c3d7af268393901f3a08563R30

## Regulated Assets Approval Flow

1. Wallet creates and signs a transaction.
2. Wallet resolves asset information and detects that it's a regulated asset.
	1. Wallet can detect whether an asset is a regulated asset by checking the [authorization flags] of the asset issuer's account.

> 3. Wallet sends the transaction to the approval server.

Author: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/813/files#diff-dfd6de7cb4877cfd8a07c699a07a96d254ba8fa32c3d7af268393901f3a08563R38

> 4. Approval server determines whether the transaction should be approved.

Reviewer: ❓ It's unclear why this statement needs to change.

Author: This is one of the changes ported from the other PR. In fact, this is [what](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/750#discussion_r512198021) you had suggested.

5. Wallet handles approval response:
    1. *Success?* Transaction has been approved and signed by the issuer.

>     2. *Revised?* Transaction has been revised to be made compliant, and signed by the issuer. Wallet will show the changes to the user and ask them to sign the new transaction.

Author: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/813/files#diff-dfd6de7cb4877cfd8a07c699a07a96d254ba8fa32c3d7af268393901f3a08563R42

approval_criteria="The goat approval server will ensure that transactions are compliant with NFO regulation"
```

## Transaction Composition

A transaction that an approval server will approve consists of operations that authorize the holding account, transact the regulated asset, and deauthorize the holding account. If a transactions is built this way, there will be no point where holding accounts have open, authorized trustlines to run unapproved operations because of transaction atomocity.

> A sandwich transaction described above can be built by wallets preemptively or by approval servers in order to make it compliant when the [revised](#revised) status is applicable.

Reviewer: 💡 As it occurs to me the term sandwich in this sentence doesn't make it easier to understand what's happening, and so I think unnecessarily introduces a new concept to the vocabulary of this SEP. Could you leave it out?
```suggestion
A transaction as described above can be built by wallets preemptively or by approval servers in order to make it compliant when the [revised](#revised) status is applicable.
```

Author: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/817/files#diff-dfd6de7cb4877cfd8a07c699a07a96d254ba8fa32c3d7af268393901f3a08563R76

Depending on whether issuers want to allow the holding accounts to maintain offers, issuers can leave the accounts in the `AUTHORIZE_TO_MAINTAIN_LIABILITIES_FLAG` state or completely deauthorize the accounts when completing the operation. See [CAP-18] for the fine-grained control of authorization.

Here is an example of the transaction:

```
Operation 1: AllowTrust op where issuer fully authorizes account A, asset X
Operation 2: AllowTrust op where issuer fully authorizes account B, asset X
Operation 3: Payment from A to B
Operation 4: AllowTrust op where issuer sets account B, asset X to AUTHORIZED_TO_MAINTAIN_LIABILITIES_FLAG state
Operation 5: AllowTrust op where issuer sets account A, asset X to AUTHORIZED_TO_MAINTAIN_LIABILITIES_FLAG state

> ```

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should be using the `AUTHORIZED_TO_MAINTAIN_LIABILITIES_FLAG` flag in this example, since a payment op doesn't require either account to maintain liabilities. Maybe we have two examples, one with a payment op where both accounts are completely de-authed, and another that involves a single user who wants to make a sell offer, so the issuer leaves the account with `AUTHORIZED_TO_MAINTAIN_LIABILITIES_FLAG`

Author: Done in https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/817/

## Approval Server

> Approval server has one endpoint that it uses to receives a signed transaction and checks for compliance and signs it on success.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Approval server is a single endpoint that receives a signed transaction, checks for compliance, and signs it on success.
```

Author: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/813/files#diff-dfd6de7cb4877cfd8a07c699a07a96d254ba8fa32c3d7af268393901f3a08563R76

The specification of an approval server is defined as follows:

### Content Type

Approval server accepts requests in the following `Content-Type`s:

- `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`
- `application/json`

Approval server responds with content type:

- `application/json`

> ### POST \<approval_server\> Endpoint

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### POST Endpoint
```

Author: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/813/files#diff-dfd6de7cb4877cfd8a07c699a07a96d254ba8fa32c3d7af268393901f3a08563R90

#### Request

This endpoint accepts HTTP POST requests containing a single `tx` parameter.

Name | Type | Description
-----|------|------------
`tx` | string | A base64 encoded transaction envelope XDR signed by the user. This is the transaction that will be tested for compliance and signed on success.

###### Example (JSON)

```json
{
  "tx": "AAAAAHAHhQtYBh5F2zA6..."
}
```

###### Example (Form)

```
tx=AAAAAHAHhQtYBh5F2zA6...
```

#### Responses

All responses will contain a top level `status` parameter that indicates the type of the result.

##### Success

This response means that the transaction was found compliant and signed without a revise.

A `success` response will have a `200` HTTP status code and `success` as the `status` value.

Parameters:

Name | Type | Description
-----|------|------------
`status` | string | `"success"`
`tx` | string | Transaction envelope XDR, base64 encoded. This transaction will have both the original signature(s) from the request as well as an additional signature from the issuer.

> `message` | string | A human readable string containing information to pass on to the user (optional).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`message` | string | (optional) A human readable string containing information to pass on to the user.

Author: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/813/files#diff-dfd6de7cb4877cfd8a07c699a07a96d254ba8fa32c3d7af268393901f3a08563R122

Parameters:

Name | Type | Description
-----|------|------------
`status` | string | `"revised"`
`tx` | string | Transaction envelope XDR, base64 encoded. This transaction is a revised compliant version of the original request transation, signed by the issuer.
`message` | string | A human readable string explaining the modifications made to the transaction to make it compliant.

###### Example

```json
{
  "status": "revised",
  "tx": "AAAAAHAHhQtYBh5F2zA6...",
  "message": "Authorization and deauthorization operations were added."
}
```

##### Pending

This response means that the issuer could not determine whether to approve the transaction at the time of receiving it. Wallet can re-submit the same transaction at a later point in time.

A `pending` response will have a `200` HTTP status code and `pending` as the `status` value.

Parameters:

Name | Type | Description
-----|------|------------
`status` | string | `"pending"`

> `timeout` | integer | Number of milliseconds to wait before submitting the same transaction again (optional).

Reviewer: >This PR adds three non-breaking changes/improvement to SEP-8

❗ Making this field optional is a breaking change. Would it be sufficient for a server to return zero if there is no timeout period required? That would require no change to the SEP.

Author: Ah you're right. If a client checks for the field, it will result in a failure if it is missing. I've removed this change.

> Would it be sufficient for a server to return zero if there is no timeout period required? That would require no change to the SEP.

It could be, but I think we need to explain what a zero timeout means. I've done it in [this](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/818) PR.

> `timeout` | integer | Number of milliseconds to wait before submitting the same transaction again (optional).
> `message` | string |A human readable string containing information to pass on to the user (optional).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`timeout` | integer | (optional) Number of milliseconds to wait before submitting the same transaction again.
`message` | string | (optional) A human readable string containing information to pass on to the user.
```

Author: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/813/files#diff-dfd6de7cb4877cfd8a07c699a07a96d254ba8fa32c3d7af268393901f3a08563R171

Note that `timeout` remains required in the other PR.

###### Example

```json
{
  "status": "pending",
  "message": "Futher verifications are required due to..."
}
```

##### Action Required

> This reponse means that the user must complete an action before this transaction can be approved. The approval service will provide a URL that facilitates the action. Upon completion, the user will resubmit the transaction.

Reviewer 2: Question: how will the wallet know when the user has taken the action? Will the user have to manually indicate to the wallet to try again?

Author: I don't think the wallet would know as the URL can ask the user to complete a task on a website that most likely doesn't talk to the wallet. So yeah I assume the user will have to try again once the required action has been completed.

An `action_required` response will have a `200` HTTP status code and `action_required` as the `status` value.

Parameters:

Name | Type | Description
-----|------|------------
`status` | string | `"action_required"`
`message` | string | A human readable string containing information regarding the action required.
`action_url` | string | A URL that allows the user to complete the actions required to have the transaction approved.

###### Example

```json
{
  "status": "action_required",
  "message": "Please sign the terms of service via the provided URL.",
  "action_url": "https://..."
}
```

##### Rejected

This response means that the transaction is not compliant and could not be revised to be made compliant.

A `rejected` response will have a `400` HTTP status code and `rejected` as the `status` value.

Parameters:

Name | Type | Description
-----|------|------------
`status` | string | `"rejected"`
`error` | string | A human readable string explaining why the transaction is not compliant and could not be made compliant.

###### Example

```json
{
  "status": "rejected",
  "message": "The destination account is blocked."
}
```

### Best practices

> - Using the `revised` status to compose a sandwich transaction for authorization purpose is encouraged as it can take the burdens away from the wallets.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure about this. Ideally a transaction _isn't_ revised so the user doesn't have to manually inspect the changes. Are the sandwich operations not deterministic? Meaning, can a wallet determine what the wrapper operations need to be depending on what the actual "meat" of the operation does?

- If a transaction was revised, always explain the changes that were made to a transaction through the `message` parameter.

> - Core operations shouldn't be modified as that can be confusing and misleading. For example, if the user wishes to put an offer for 1000 GOATS but due to velocity limits they can only put an offer for 500 GOATS, it is better to error with a messagerather than to change the amount.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should instruct wallets to inspect the revised transaction and alert the user if the original operation is changed.

Author: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/813/files#diff-dfd6de7cb4877cfd8a07c699a07a96d254ba8fa32c3d7af268393901f3a08563R231
